 
a) Types of information used by various functions;
b) Frequency of use;
c) Accessing capabilities;
d) Data entities and their relationships;
e) Integrity constraints;
f) Data retention requirements.


Waypoint

The waypoint data facilitates the function of providing map coordinates entered by the user to be displayed on the device and as a reference towards the track data.
The data have to conform to the open xml format of GPS eXchange Format(could use GML instead) as it is higly compatible and translateble towards other mapping formats and applications.
The waypoint data must contain the following attributes:
Name of route.
Name for each waypoint
Valid Coordinates in longitude and latitude.
Elevation. 
The user must be able to view and modify the data in varius abstractions either through the device itself or by using the device as a usb slave peripheral.
The waypoint data will in most cases only be read by the system as it is a reference only and will seldom be updated by the user.

DATA INTEGRITY AND RETENTION

The waypoint data can not by any means be modyfied by the system unless it is requested by the user.
The waypoint data should be persistently stored on a non-volatile storage medium to prevent data loss.
The waypoint data can be bufferd onto volatile storage medium if performance is needed.
The waypoint data should be verified to be correct before and after transfering it between storage mediums.
If clobbering would occur between two different data files, user verification is needed to proceed.

Data Format: GPS eXchange Format
GPS eXchange Format(gpx) is a de facto standard for storing gps data.[ref]
Accessing capabilities:
User:
The database of waypoints must be stored in a visible partition allowing access for the user through the capabilities of slave usb mode,
 the entity should be read and writable.
System:
The system access the same entity as the user.








User Location or Track
The track data facilitates the function of providing and storing information about the devices' location.
It will be used to show the device current and past locations on the device display.
The track data have to contain the following attributes:
Valid Coordinates in longitude and latitude.
Elevation. 









Data Format: GPS eXchange Format



Data retention:  Major requirement, 


System variables




ref;
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GPS_eXchange_Format
Using and Abusing XML http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=04455638